# Yiddish Music Archive
## Week 1:
> Based on your own experience, what do you think are some challenges to working with music and music-related data (perhaps related to access, curation, distribution, etc.)? How does your selected theme display some of these challenges? Describe the current manifestations of data relating to your selected theme, discussing how it is presently curated (collected and gathered) and how it is presented, described, and analysed

In the modern era, access to musical data has its own new challenges. Most music is now behind paywalls that require monthly payments to maintain. Without this you will be unable to access the aocustic, live data without the service interfering with the experience whether that is adverts or recommendations you cannot skip. Without a wifi connection it is also increasingly difficult to gain access to any audio files, as the physical music market (vinyl, cassettes, physical sheet music) declines a connection to access online archives, streaming services or notation websites are an essential.

The theme I have chosen is a perfect representation of the challenges found in obtaining musical data. As a Jewish person, I have grown up as one of very few people who understand and practice yiddish. It is after all a dying language. Not only does Yiddish and Yiddish music represent the slowly evaporating physical music data market as everything moves to being digital, it is also a form of music that had to survive persecution, supression and of course genocide. The archive is not as vast as some of the others provided, and this brings challenges of its own. However, the fact that there exsists any record of this musical data is an incredible thing, maintaining history, and a part of my own history, that Nazis had tried to destroy.

Due to the scarcity of Yiddish musical data that survived the second world war, Yiddish music exsists almost exlusively in archives. It is survived by some American plays, created by Jewish/Yiddish speakers upon immigrating to America in 1945, but aside from this obtaining any kind of acoustic data for Yiddish music. It is presented in archives such as the Milken Archive, the YIVO institue for Jewish Research and of course the works now available digitally that belonged to Menache Vaxer that are found in Brown Univeristy's Archive. It is described as anything related to Yiddish usually is, a link to the past for Jewish people. Whether this is the sheet music tha can be played to keep it alive or audio files for people to listen and connect with, the basis behind the archives is about keeping a damaged history alive.

## Week 2:
>Identify a piece of music related to your theme to download and edit. As you did on Tuesday, download the PDF and then convert it to MuseScore Edit at least 10 bars in MuseScore, focusing on rhythm and pitch as a minimum. Discuss the aspects of your score that were not transcribed properly by the OMR engine, referencing your group discussions on Tuesday as well.

The piece of music I selected is entitled Bar Mizvo and is part of a book named Der Bar Mitzvah. It was written by Jewish German musicians, Arnold Permutter and Herman Wohl, and was published in 1909. The score was essentially copied perfectly, it was a fairly simple piece that was not hand drawn but instead was printed. The lines were full and straight enough for the programme to transcribe easily. Note placement was correct and I did not have to do much in the way of musical correction. The main issues Musescore ran into was the the visual representation of the music. Whilst when played the music produced was correctly timed and notated, on the sheet itself there were variations in spacing and note layout. Below are a few examples of this:

The largest issue I encountered was that the Yiddish Musical Archive at Brown University does not allow for straight PDF downloads, meaning that in order to put the score through Musescore I had to use an online converter. Aswell is this i ran into a great deal of trouble when attempting to copy the score myself as my ability in Musescore is not very strong so there was much I couldnt figure out how to do. Attatched below is a full side-by-side comparison of the 10 bars of music and the original piece.
